Common-Issues: Documents resolving dual installations from Migration Assistant copies (#16668)
Homebrew/brew: docs/Common-Issues.md

brew upgrade
```

## Unintentional dual Homebrew installations

When using tools such as Apple's _Migration Assistant_ (MA), it's possible to have two Homebrew installations unintentionally.

> This most commonly results in MA copying `/usr/local` and `/Applications` from an Intel-based Mac to these same paths on an AS-based Mac.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This most commonly results in MA copying `/usr/local` and `/Applications` from an Intel-based Mac to these same paths on an Apple Silicon-based Mac.
```

Reviewer: Probably good to at least spell out the first instance before using "AS".

> This is problematic because `/Applications` may contain x86_64-only apps, especially common terminal emulators such as iTerm2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is problematic because `/Applications` may contain x86_64-only apps.
```

Reviewer: I don't think we should call this out.

Using an x86_64 terminal emulator will cause the shell to use the `/usr/local` installation of Homebrew
instead of a new installation in `/opt/homebrew`, which is the correct path for an arm64 Homebrew installation on macOS.

> Continuing with this setup will cause problems eventually, so it's best to migrate your Homebrew installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuing with this setup may eventually cause problems, so it's best to migrate your Homebrew installation.
```

> Or, really, reinstall it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Follow these steps to do this.

1. Run `arch -x86_64 /usr/local/bin/brew bundle dump --global` to dump your current installed formulae list to `~/.Brewfile`.
1. Review the contents of `~/.Brewfile` to remove things you no longer want to have installed.
1. Verify that your terminal emulator is running in arm64 mode by checking that the output of `arch` is `arm64`.
   * If it is not, use a different terminal emulator, such as Apple's Terminal.app, that will run in `arm64` mode.

> 1. [Reinstall Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) under the correct prefix (`/opt/homebrew`),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reinstall Homebrew under the correct prefix (`/opt/homebrew`),
```

Reviewer: I don't think we need this link. Maybe we want to add our one-line installer here instead.

   which will happen by default when the terminal is running in arm64 mode.

   * **Follow the _Next Steps_ instructions** listed at the end of the installation process;
     failing to adjust your shell configuration accordingly could break your Homebrew installation.
1. Run `/opt/homebrew/bin/brew bundle install --global` to replicate your original formulae installation using your new Homebrew installation in `/opt/homebrew`.

Note that if it's been a long time since you ran `brew upgrade`, you may encounter some package renaming that will require manual resolution.
Expect errors.
Expect to spend some time [searching Homebrew's formulae and cask list](https://formulae.brew.sh/)

> for replacements for deprecated, disabled, and just plain _missing_ formulae.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for replacements for deprecated, disabled, or removed formulae.
```

brew upgrade
```

## Unintentional dual Homebrew installations

When using tools such as Apple's _Migration Assistant_ (MA), it's possible to have two Homebrew installations unintentionally.
This most commonly results in MA copying `/usr/local` and `/Applications` from an Intel-based Mac to these same paths on an Apple Silicon-based Mac.
This is problematic because `/Applications` may contain x86_64-only apps.
Using an x86_64 terminal emulator will cause the shell to use the `/usr/local` installation of Homebrew
instead of a new installation in `/opt/homebrew`, which is the correct path for an arm64 Homebrew installation on macOS.

Continuing with this setup may eventually cause problems, so it's best to migrate your Homebrew installation.
Follow these steps to do this.

1. Run `arch -x86_64 /usr/local/bin/brew bundle dump --global` to dump your current installed formulae list to `~/.Brewfile`.
1. Review the contents of `~/.Brewfile` to remove things you no longer want to have installed.
1. Verify that your terminal emulator is running in arm64 mode by checking that the output of `arch` is `arm64`.

>    * If it is not, use a different terminal emulator, such as Apple's Terminal.app, that will run in `arm64` mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If it is not, use a different terminal emulator, such as Apple's Terminal.app, that will run in `arm64` mode.
```

> 1. Reinstall Homebrew under the correct prefix (`/opt/homebrew`),

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install Homebrew under the correct prefix (`/opt/homebrew`),
```

I think `reinstall` makes it sound like you're removing the existing installation here rather than later.

   which will happen by default when the terminal is running in arm64 mode.

>    * **Follow the _Next Steps_ instructions** listed at the end of the installation process;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **Follow the _Next Steps_ instructions** listed at the end of the installation process;
```

    failing to adjust your shell configuration accordingly could break your Homebrew installation.

1. Run `/opt/homebrew/bin/brew bundle install --global` to replicate your original formulae installation using your new Homebrew installation in `/opt/homebrew`.

> Note that if it's been a long time since you ran `brew upgrade`, you may encounter some package renaming that will require manual resolution.
> Expect errors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

these don't apply if you're using `brew bundle`

Expect to spend some time [searching Homebrew's formulae and cask list](https://formulae.brew.sh/)
for replacements for deprecated, disabled, or removed formulae.

Once you are satisfied with the state of your new `/opt/homebrew` Homebrew installation, you can uninstall the old `/usr/local` installation with these next steps.

1. Download the uninstaller script: `curl -fsSL -o /tmp/uninstall.sh https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/uninstall.sh`

> 1. Run `bash /tmp/uninstall.sh --path=/usr/local`

Reviewer 3: Just `curl` this directly into `bash`

Author: ```suggestion
1. Download and run [the uninstaller](https://github.com/Homebrew/install/#uninstall-homebrew) script: `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/uninstall.sh)" -- --path=/usr/local`
```
